("The Call of Spring")
♪ Now the mist has cleared
♪ As day is dawning
♪ It's all becoming
clearer to me ♪
♪ The seasons change
♪ As I change with them
♪ And the call of spring
♪ Gives me strength
♪ And courage to know
♪ I will make it through
♪ Whatever life throws at me
♪ Summer's sweet scent
♪ Autumn's whisper
♪ Winter stings with the cold
♪ When trouble comes
rolling in like thunder ♪
♪ Tears may fall
♪ Fear may call
♪ But with spring in my heart
♪ When seasons change
♪ I'll change with them
♪ And I know I can
weather the storm ♪
(birds calling)
(soothing woodwind music)
(birds crying)
- What's making those sounds?
- Don't trouble yourself.
The guards are watching.
Hey, play something cheerful.
- Certainly, sir.
(upbeat music)
(music stops)
- Why are we stopped?
(horse neighs)
(thunderous sounds)
- [Female] The
monsters. Monsters!
- [Old Man] Will you calm down?
- [Guard] What is going on?
- [Female] Oh me, oh my.
- [Old Man] And
I said calm down.
- [Guard] Hey!
(horse squeals)
- [Guards] Huh?
Oh!
(guitar strums)
(applause)
(horse galloping)
- (Laughter) Good day.
But not for you.
If you value your lives,
leave all your belongings
and run.
- Oh my, we're done for.
- Rubbish.
Just go!
(whips horse)
(fast-paced music)
- They're over there!
And there as well!
- [Old Man] Drive faster!
- I don't wanna die.
- Borka? You good for nothing.
- Mattis, you
shameless low life.
- Borka, you foolish
bull, this is our turf.
Hurry on back to
your own forest.
- Oh, you think you
can just get away
with taking our
treasure from us?
- You're the ones tryin'
to take it from us!
- You lay one finger
on that treasure
and I'll plunge you
and your entire clan
into the depths of hell.
- This loot happens
to belong to us.
We've been tracking
that wagon before
it even entered the forest.
- There's no way I'm
letting you have it.
- You want some?
- Say that again and I'll
send you home crying.
- That's my line.
- Fine, stop your horse.
- You stop your horse.
- I said it first.
- Well, I thought it first.
- You're a toad.
- You're a toad bottom.
- Ahh!
- Chief! Chief!
(grunting)
- Let go of my tongue!
- Chief, quick! It's serious!
(grunting)
- [Both] Whoa!
- Serious, eh? I hope so.
I was just about to
get the better of him.
- Not likely.
(birds crying)
(water flowing)
- Mattis! Quick!
Faster, they're waiting for you.
- Yah, yah!
- Go now, as quick
as you can. Go!
(horse galloping)
- Yah, yah!
(thunder)
- Yah!
- It's Mattis.
Oy, open the doors.
(doors creaking)
- Lovis!
- Oh my.
- Lovis.
Lovis.
Lovis!
Noddle-Pete, where's Lovis?
- (Laughs) Upstairs,
where else would she be?
- Oh yeah, good point.
- (Laughs) Yep.
- Lovis!
(hollering)
Lovis!
(panting)
Has he been born?
- Oh, the baby? No.
- I heard you were in
agony and struggling,
groaning in pain.
- The baby will come
when it's ready to come
and not a moment before.
Waiting here is all I can do.
(panting)
(whimsical music)
(thunder)
(birds crying)
(bird laughing)
- [Lovis] (grunting)
Let me have some
quiet for our baby.
So it can hear me sing.
Go and drive those
nasty harpies away.
- You wanna sing a song
while giving birth?
- I think it might be
easier that way and besides,
the baby would turn out
all the joyer if it arrived
on earth to the sound of a song.
A quiet song, something
soothing, you know.
Nice and calm.
- Hmm?
- Now hush those harpies! Go on!
- I...
- (Sigh)
(birds crying)
- Be gone, you harpies.
My baby will be born tonight.
Hear that, you hags?
(birds crying)
Ahh!
(thunder)
- So, out for a spot
of hunting, are we?
Tonight when you should be
inside having your baby.
A baby of storms.
Ugly as thunder.
(bird laughing)
- My baby will be anything
but ugly, unlike you!
(thunder)
♪ Wild wolf please
♪ Leave us be
♪ I know you're prowling
♪ Out from the forest
♪ To come steal from me
♪ I know your pain
♪ Cubs hungry again
♪ But you won't
take mine from me ♪
♪ Wild wolf please
♪ Why don't you feed
♪ On the scraps
that I leave you ♪
♪ I promise this
- That's some wind.
♪ If my child you kiss
♪ That's the last
thing you'll do ♪
- We still waitin'?
- Indeed.
- I'm bettin' it's
gonna be a boy.
Anyone else wanna bet?
Oh, come on now.
This is the stuff you just took.
Wait 'til you see what I bet.
- I bet it's a girl.
(frog croaks)
- Huh?
You put that down?
- Incredible.
The first child
born in this fort.
- Hey, Shaggy.
You ever held a baby?
- Not that I remember.
- Why, have you?
- I have.
I'm an expert
babysitter. (laughs)
- Knotas, you need to be quiet.
- Huh?
What we're supposed
to be quiet when
a baby's being born then?
- Well, of course, everyone
knows that, uh, well,
I'm not sure.
(laughter)
- All this sitting around.
I can feel myself fading away.
My robbing days will
soon be over.
I'm old and I'd like to meet
this child before I'm through
which, if you think about
it, could be any moment now
or precisely now.
- (panting)
My good men,
I'm a father!
- [All] Hey!
Yay! Yay!
- I have a child.
I am a father!
- Is it a boy or a girl?
What then?
- Happiness and joy.
It's a girl.
- [All] Huh?
- Wait, here she is.
(soft calm music)
Now my friends, behold
a robber's daughter.
(soft calm music)
Hey, hey, hey!
Come here and see the most
beautiful girl in the world.
- [Female] I told you so.
- [Male] Hello.
- [Male 2] So cute.
(baby cooing)
- Oh, look how smart she is.
You can just tell.
- Eh, what's her
name then Mattis?
- (Clearing throat) You
could ask the mother.
I decided long ago
the name is Ronja.
- But how did you know
it was gonna be a girl?
- I didn't, however,
Ronja was what I decided
so it was always
going to be Ronja.
- (Laughter)
- Will you hand Ronja to me now?
Did you hear me, Mattis?
(baby cooing)
- Ah, Ronja, you're
already holding my heart
in your tiny little hands.
(baby cooing)
I do not understand it
but that's how it is.
- Mattis, could I
hold her for a bit?
Mattis?
- Huh, of course, you
can hold the baby.
The next robber chieftain,
I present her to you.
Here, now listen my good friend,
if you drop her like
a loaf of bread,
I will drop you from this world.
- Look at you, eh?
You're as light as a feather.
Oh! Oh!
- Give her back,
you foolish old man!
How dare you?
What were you expecting,
some lumbering robber
giant with a pointy beard?
- Mattis' daughter is
our finest treasure!
- And nobody can
match her beauty.
- The loveliest of the forest!
- That's right!
- Alright then, let's celebrate.
- [All] Yay!
(thunder)
- [All] Hey, hey, hey, hey!
(upbeat music)
Hey, hey, hey, hey!
- Dinner's here.
Don't feed the dog,
feed the (inaudible)!
- [All] Ha ha ha!
- Borka's going to be
sick with jealousy.
I'll wager he'll be gnashing
his teeth at this news.
- (Laughs) There'll be
such a gnashing that all
the wild harpies and
great wolves in the woods
will be holding their ears.
- That's right.
The pitiful Borka tree
bears no fruit.
He is falling down.
I say "Timber" to his
family tree! (laughs)
- (Evil laughter)
(thunder crashes)
(thunderous pounding)
- Ow, ow!
- [All] Oh!
- Well, that was
certainly close by.
What a lightning crack!
It's like a demon struck
a direct hit on this fort.
(baby cries)
- Oh, my child is crying.
What do I do?
(baby stops crying)
(baby swallowing)
(soft soothing music)
(wind howling)
- Can you believe that lightning
smashed this place in two?
- We should call it Hell's Gap.
(dramatic music)
- Hey, look at the chief.
- (Growling)
- Who can blame him?
This fort's been a home to
his family for generations
and now look at it.
- I'm afraid to.
If I look around, I
might catch Mattis' eye.
- Don't worry, Mattis
doesn't have it in him
to stay angry about
anything for too long.
- (Growling)
(laughs)
- See? Told ya.
- Alright, it could be worse.
Remember Noddle-Pete,
back to that time
you went missing
in the vault for four days?
- Oh, you shouldn't
remind me about that.
I was merely tryin' to find
out how vast this fort was.
I wandered up and
down and over and back
and back and, well,
I sure found out.
It's big enough to get
lost for four days.
(moaning)
- This place is too
big for us anyhow.
We've got plenty of space.
Who cares what happened.
- Alright!
- Yes, of course.
- If you're happy,
we're happy, right?
- Yeah!
- Yeah.
- Mm hmm (affirmative)
- There's just one thing.
- Oh chief, the outhouse!
It's on the other side.
(bird cawing)
(stone crumbling)
Ahhh!
(thunderous pounding)
- Better hold it until we
build a new one over here.
- Oh, come on!
(laughter)
(slow soothing music)
- Ronja, it looks like your
young life is already off
to a dramatic start, isn't it?
(baby cooing)
(slow soothing music)
- [Narrator] And so, a
new life was welcomed into
the Mattis clan of the forest.
Ronja was her name.
Ronja, the Robber's Daughter.
(fast upbeat music)
Next time on Ronja,
the Robber's Daughter,
"First Trip to the Forest".
Don't miss it!
(light whimsical music)